The trading-off different
design parameters in other words, a system that's designed to be good in a
particular area is usually pretty bad in others. A high-level Interceptor jet
has got excellent speed and maneuverability but it's not much good for holding
freight, and the school bus is pretty good for getting kids to school but it
won't win many trophies on a racing circuit. There are line lines whatever
you're designing for, you try and trade off things so that the specification is
maximized towards getting done the things that you want the system to do and the
penalties that you pay are paid in areas that you don't want it to do. There are
some systems that are designed to be a compromise. They're designed to do a wide
range of things moderately well, although I suppose you could argue that they
excel in versatility and probably the most versatile system that we know is the
human brain. It can do pretty well anything, to a degree. We're never satisfied
with its performance in any one area. So we're continually building things like
microscopes, telescopes, calculating machines to improve its scope. And each one
of those additional devices will excel the human brain by many orders of
magnitude in its own field of specialty and be absolutely useless for anything
else.
All right. I believe Daryl has a few questions. Yeah. So the problem I was
leading up to is that the human brains need to be specialized in versatility.
And it might well be that one of nature's basic trade-offs is that thinking big
and thinking small are mutually exclusive. When you lift your arm to comb your
hair, it requires the coordinated action of about 40 separate muscles. Now, if
you had to consciously monitor every step of that sequence to lift your arm, you
wouldn't get much else done. You certainly wouldn't build many cities or compose
many symphonies or really be very much of a high-level intelligent being at all.
And it seems pretty inescapable that in the course of evolution, what actually
happens in practice is when you think lift your arm, One high-level command
triggers off a whole sequence of micro-instructions that are microcoded into the
nervous system, which is analogous to many computer operations to date. And you
just think one thought consciously, and the rest just takes place without any
further intervention on your part. And it's easy to see the survival value of a
process like that, why it would be reinforced in the process of evolution, so
that the level at which the human brain is mechanical... A lot of arguments
against artificial intelligence that I heard, they make the point that a
computer is deterministic, that its circuits function exactly the way they're
programmed mechanically and they don't have any variability or whimsical
behavior built into them. But at the basic hardware level, this is true of the
human brain also. The basic neuron of the brain is every bit as mechanical as an
integrated circuit chip. If the input, the sum of the inputs that are applied to
it, exceed a certain threshold, it will fire. And if they don't, it won't. The
variability becomes manifest to the complexity of the organization at a far
higher level—software, if you will. But we, as thinking conscious totalities, we
manipulate abstract symbols that represent the world that we perceive and the
world we live in, such as places, people, emotions and things. We are not
consciously aware of the mechanically precise hardware level of operation of our
brains, in other words, our neurons, or even that we have in it. Where as it
were, shut off from that level of operation. An interesting thought is that if
we ever built a system that was capable of emulating the human brain in all its
variety of versatility, we might find that one of the trade-offs that it pays
for being that versatile and that general is that it gets shut off from it's
hardware level too and it can't calculate. You know, it can't remember word for
word a conversation it had last week.
and perhaps if it wanted to calculate Pi to a couple of thousand distinctions,
it would have to build itself a computer or buy one. There's another good reason
for imagining that many of you wouldn't call it a computer anymore. Perhaps we
should call it a biologically reproduced artificial intelligence and since
computer people dilided acronyms That would soon be short to brain, which would
describe it pretty well.
You planned that, didn't you?
I wrote it somewhere in an article a while ago. All right. Here are some short
questions, which we may use as inserts. Okay, I'll try and keep the answers a
little shorter, too. No, that's all right. That's okay. Which novel is your best
-selling novel? The more recent ones are selling at a far faster rate than
Inherit the Inherit the Stars has been on sale the longest and translated into
the most languages. So it has sold the most copies, but the rate of, the…
The more recent ones are selling at a far faster rate than Inherit the Stars did
when it was first released, if that makes sense.
Do you think you could write a fantasy story?
Yeah, but I don't know if it would be what a lot of people have in mind when
they use the word fantasy. I've discussed this with a number of editors.
I suppose we ought to try and agree on the definition of fantasy firstly. I
would offer my interpretation of fantasy would be stories
setting times or places in which the laws of cause and effect don't work the way
they do in the universe we know. They're not simple extrapolations from the laws
we know. in other words, magic works or
something akin to magic phenomena happen which to us would be inexplicable by
our laws of physics and cause and effect and we would have to describe as magic
is that a reasonably acceptable definition of what fantasy is? I believe so
yeah, I would say that if we're to ride in that realm, I would submit that
surely the opportunities for... Well, let's do science fiction firstly, the term
itself is new but the purpose it serves and the way it serves it is not really.
People from the beginnings of history have had a need or have got
enjoyment from escapism, from escaping for a while out of their own humdrum
lives, their own humdrum places and going to places new or places different. and
writers have enjoyed storytellers have been able to use stretch their
imagination and exercise their creativity if they were able to break out of the
limitations that are imposed by geography and history as they are and the
conventions and rules of society as they happen to exist In other words, you can
do so much more if you, never mind the constraints of how things are, let's
imagine they might be somewhere else. In centuries gone by when the world was
only partly explored, it was easy to do this by simply inventing places, or in
Gallidus Travolts, or the Arabian Knight, or an island in the Pacific or an
unexplored part of South America, but of course in these days, with the whole
world map and surveyed by satellites. You really can't do that credibly. And the
only dimensions left in which the Rider can create new worlds and shed those
constraints are the dimensions of space and time which really gives us science
fiction. And if we agree on that, I then suggest that the fantasy Rider goes one
step further. The fantasy Rider not only He discards the constraints of history
and geography and society as they exist in the real world. The fantasy writer
also discards the constraints of the laws of physics as they operate in the real
world. and my conclusion from that would be that if the opportunity for
originality, creativity,
imagination to soar to its limits exist anywhere, they should surely exist in
the field of fantasy. The opportunities for true originality are greater in no
other branch of literature. and yet I find it rather disappointing or rather
surprising yet time and time and time again we see the same symbols of people in
clothes and medieval hats that went out of style here hundreds of years ago
living in thatch cottages and waving swords around it seems to me that that
opportunity is not being exploited at all in a lot of cases anyway
A number of editors have asked me to write fantasy, and I said, well, I'll think
about it. But if i did, I think I would try and use that opportunity, as I think
it can be, and should be, and could be used. If we're just retelling medieval
fairy tales, I think it's almost fantasy under false potensives. It's not really
recognizing or realizing the potential of what fantasy really is.
I believe if you did write a fantasy novel it would be a different type than a
lot of fantasy writers are used to reading. Yeah, I think it would. Whether that
would be popular or not, I don't know. And if I were asked at this stage what
would it be about? The only answer is I have the faintest idea because I haven't
thought about it. But if I did sit down and seriously think about doing
something in that area, it would be with the considerations that I've just
outlined taken into account. What might come out of it, goodness only knows. If
it was that obvious, I suppose it wouldn't be fantasy. Great.
Has anybody approached you about movie rights to any of your novels so far?
Yeah. We've talked to a number of companies to date and nothing's come out of
it. Any particular story in particular? Inherit the Stars, Two Faces, mainly.
I'd love to see Inherit the Stars. So with regard to the future who knows? If
maybe is the only safe thing to say to this stage. But that would be an
indication that anything is positively moving on that front at this point in
time. As far as I know where it is. I was just curious this what will be part of
the show this just goes in our information file. All the tapes that we tape, the
master tapes are unedited. We copy them off on a copy tapes and edit those. Are
we in interview time now? Or is this just chit-chat? This is just chit-chat.
Erwin Allen was the guy who made the Poseidon adventure and the towering
Interno. A lot of the disaster movies. About a year ago was more recently than
that. Some time ago was getting quite interested in Two Faces of Tomorrow. I
think in the end he decided not to go ahead but what do you go there? That's
right. Yeah, my own impression, and this is of course my own opinion, is Erwin
Allen has never been able to handle science fiction. He's never really got a
grasp of it. I haven't been very impressed if we're not being broadcast. If this
is just between us, I'm not very impressed by any science fiction movies, to be
honest. Yeah. Just out of curiosity, which ones, which out of the science
fiction movies, which ones would you find impressive? Which one? Yeah. I missed
the question. Which ones do I like? Oh, yeah. Which ones would you think would
be a good science fiction movie? Out of the books? No. Out of the movies. What
do you think would be a good science fiction movie? Which movies were good? Yes.
I haven't seen many of them, mainly because I don't like the ones I did see. I
remember being very,
I'm very impressed by 2001
bearing in mind that it came out sometime around the mid-60s and I thought that
the technical detail and the authenticity was exceptional and I was on the edge
of my seat looking forward to a really you know the whole thing to develop into
a really crisp story with a I must confess, I was a little let down. I didn't
understand the ending. I don't know what happened. We went into this abstract,
symbolic kind of thing and it didn't mean anything to me. I had dinner one night
with Arthur Clarke and I said, Arthur, what does the ending of 2001 mean? And he
said, I don't know. Kubrick and the various music people wanted to end it one
way and somebody wanted to end it another way and Arthur said he just walked
away and left them to it and he didn't ever understood what they ended up with
either. So I think that kind of accounts for or puts to rest a lot of the very,
very ingenious interpretations that I've listened to from numerous people. I
hadn't heard that story before. I'm going to remember that one. In fact, it's
really no secret because I told Arthur this that 2001 the one was one of the
factors that um inspired me to write Inherit the Stars. I love the idea of
something being found a mystery being uncovered in the course of lunar
exploration that was sufficiently intriguing to motivate a lot of scientists
into unraveling it. It seemed a good opportunity to set the scientific detective
story that I wanted to write? You know, okay, let's have the detective story or
the mystery that the detectives are trying to solve hinge around something
that's turned up on the moon. Well, dead bodies are always pretty good for
detective stories. It ought to be a more interesting dead body than the standard
detective thriller, so let's make it 50,000 years old and human, which raises a
whole, opens up the whole bag of worms and let's just see how they unravel
that." I wanted the ending to be a bit of a twist and a bit of a surprise, but
nevertheless plausible and rational within the context of the story. I didn't
want to bring in mystical agencies or strange
laws of physics or anything like this to hold it together. it and you did what
what uh every good mystery writer does is give the reader enough information to
solve the mystery himself if he's got the perception to do it i think so yeah i
think that's honest fiction too i think phony suspense uh cheating and holding
back information from the reader uh don't have good fiction i i think that if
you're writers who do that because they're trying to create an atmosphere of
mystery and make the reader curious. I don't think that's a fair way of going
about it. I think, in fairness, as a courtesy to the reader, the reader should
know as much as the characters know. And I think it's kind of weak where you
know the character knows something and the writer won't tell you what it is.
He's almost playing games with the reader, saying, you know, I know something
you don't know. That's not fair. I think that as information becomes available
to the characters, so the reader should become aware of it. So the reader has
the same opportunity as the character to figure it out. And the suspense and the
reader's curiosity should be aroused by more skillful methods than simply
depriving them of information and keeping them guessing. Well, teasing them.
Yes, they should be kept guessing, but not by being cheated.
Yeah, I may have to retract my statement here about this not being used. That
was such an extraordinarily good answer. We may incorporate that into a future
program. Oh, sure. Yeah, I mean if you want to use that that's fine. It's just
when we were mentioning names like Arthur Clark and Erwin Allen, But I think if
we're going out in public, I'd rather just edit those out. Oh, yeah, that's no
problem. The thing on mystery writing, because we're going to eventually produce
a program on science fiction detective stories because there aren't a whole lot
of them. Right. And since we'll have this on our information tape, if we ever
do, we'll call you up and tell you that we're doing it. And then we'll send you
a copy tape of it. Oh, well, I trust your integrity. I think if you are talking
about personal things that were said over lunch in confidence, I prefer not to
go clubbing or something like that. No, we wouldn't do that.
I've exhausted my supply of questions.
Personally, I happen to enjoy your work very, very much. Thank you. In fact, one
of the things that, oh, yeah, our students in our science fiction class that
we're teaching this semester at the college are reading your novel, Inherit the
Stars, as one of the novels for the class. I'm glad to hear it. And this radio
show will be aired the weekend before they meet in class, so they'll be hearing
these conversations before we talk about it in class. Fine. It just so happens
that it works out that way. Well, you can tell them if they enjoy it and they
like the gentle giants, then there's a third one in the pipeline and it'll be
out in June. Yeah. Now, yeah, we've remarked that on some instances after
reading some of your stuff, I wonder if we just can't go out to Radio Shack and
buy enough parts to build some of those things. I get a lot of letters like
that. Which I think is rewarding. that your comment on learning is one that
appears frequently as well that people do seem to find this kind of fiction
stimulating and that it gives them the urge to want to get up and get out and do
something meaningful and well surely that's a good thing I think just my own
observation would be that we're so bombarded by war and things that are going
wrong and things don't work out and yet in your novels you show a society that
if you work at it things can work out I think that's what I'm trying to say I
think it could, I think it can it doesn't guarantee that it will I think there
is a borderline between optimism and naive innocence I think it's kind of
healthily optimistic to recognize that we I think we have it in our future lives
entirely in our own hand but it's not a new observation these days to look out
across the size of the universe we live in and even really the pictures that we
see through the Paloma Telescope and things like that really don't convey the
vast mystery. Our own galaxy contains something like a couple of hundred billion
stars, I believe. It's 100,000 light years in diameter. Light will take 100,000
years to cross just our galaxy. And that sounds what it is, an unimaginable
distance. and yet that galaxy there are more galaxies than anybody can count the
number of galaxies is just beyond counting and the best analogy that modern
science can come up with of the universe is that of a gas of galaxy molecules
imagine the number of molecules
swirling around in the room that you're sitting in and imagine every one of
those is a galaxy. And every one of those galaxies contains, say, 100 billion
stars. And you happen to be on a little ball of mud that's attached to one of
them. It ain't much, and I don't really feel anything intimidating about this.
Yeah, we're insignificant in terms of the universe, but looked at in another
way, it is very exhilarating and very liberating. because what it really says is
that we are not cogs in a clockwork machine that somebody has programmed the
rules for, that we're doomed or not depending on somebody else's whim that we
are a totally self-sufficient
self-determining species and The limits to expansion and growth around us
potentially are limitless. There are no limits, I believe, to how far and how
high the human species can expand, both in terms of how far it can travel and
the things it can achieve. I think it's entirely up to us.
I think it's an exercise in self-deception to rely on big brothers in the sky or
magical forces to solve our problems for us or make our problems go away they
won't but the realisation that we have the ability and the opportunity to do it
I find a very exciting one But if we make a mess of it, and there's no guarantee
that we won't, there's certainly no doubt that the universe won't miss us. If
that one little speck of dust vanishes, the rest of the gas of galaxies isn't
even going to see the difference. So it really is entirely up to us.
And it's, we hear a lot of talk about freedom these days. And of course, freedom
and responsibility are different sides of the same coin. If you are totally free
to determine your course of action and nobody places any constraints on you,
then by the same token, you are responsible for the consequences of those
actions. And I think we've got that coin. I think we are totally free to do
anything we choose. There are no constraints. There are no limits. I think we
have the potential. We ought to have the responsibility to ourselves. I think
that's the thing that, as a race, we need to wake up to and acknowledge because
with the levels of power that we're beginning to harness and play with. It's
becoming a very serious issue. I don't think the solution is to run away from
the responsibility and go back to playing with windmills or wood-burning stoves
or primitve levels of existence, as some people would advocate that we do.
That's an abdication. I think we need to realize that the next run upwards on
the ladder of evolution that we're on requires
us to comprehend
those forces that we're beginning to understand and learn how to use them
responsibly.
And I think that all the... ...you mentioned war, a little while ago.
Yes, we have the potential to wipe ourselves out. But I think we all, on the
other side of the coin, we also have the ability to solve the problems but a war
would otherwise be fought over. It doesn't make sense to me to talk about
fighting a global war over a little bit of oil under the desert, a few metals or
minerals in South Africa or something like that, because the little pockets of
energy that happen to be trapped around the surface of this planet, you know,
are just our investment capital for starting the business. No business has to
run forever on its investment capital. that's just your startup capital. You
invest that and make the profit to pay your way as your business grows and
expands. I think that's true of energy and with other resources, too. I think
resources are only finite within the context of a given level of technology.
When civilization goes through a phase change into the higher level of
technology, the levels the resources that were previously finite cased to be
relevant, they don't matter anymore. Economies in history depended on animal
power, slaves, horses, how much wood you could carry, limited the extent to
which earlier economies could be stretched. They're totally irrelevant in the
context of today's high technology economy. We worry about oil and gas and
things and I say yes they're finite and yes they won't last forever, I don't
think it matters Dan because we're likely to, we could be into technologies far
more advanced in which fossil fuels are simply irrelevant, it's just not worth
the cost or the messing around drilling them out of the ground anymore. I think
that could happen long before they run out. So I don't particularly see that as
an area to get concerned for unless people will become trapped in the
straitjacket of their own narrow, short-term thinking, and believe it's worth
fighting a war over. I think it is. Which is, again, it's not to say that
everybody will see it that way.
Yeah, I think lots of times we probably end up being manipulated by the media
that we are bombarded with all the time. I missed that, Dave. Lots of times I
think we're manipulated by the media that we're bombarded with all the time, you
know, the newspapers and the TV. I'm sure a lot of this goes on. I'm not so sure
that as much of it goes on as some people seem to think. I'm sure a lot of it
does. I'm sure a lot of vested interests are tied up with stretching our
existing technologies for a little while longer yet. A lot of money has been
invested in refineries
and tankers and mining rights and drilling rights and that kind of thing and I'm
sure it is in the interest of a lot of powerful lobbies to keep us using those
things for a while longer. Yet I don't really see that as sinister or unethical.
I suppose it is in some ways but it's a good business sense in other ways. for
taking the long term view, I think that when the need gets acute enough, then
we'll solve the problem I have no doubt we have the ability to do it I just hope
that happens before anybody starts pressing buttons I think it will too I think
one of the best examples I can think of is, I believe it was Brazil that
converted all their cars, most of their gas using cars to alcohol and a Ford
Motor Company is making the cars for them. Of course they have a fairly
efficient form of government, it's a dictatorship. Yeah, I don't think it could
work. They have the different economic framework. It wouldn't work in the United
States. As you said, they have a stricter form of government. They have the
lower wages and the...
I hesitate to use the word peasant because of its derogatory connotations, but a
lot of human labor goes into harvesting the cane and the biomass that makes the
alcohol and human labor that is cheap and freely available at low wages. And you
can sell it at the pumps that are far less than you could sell it for in this
country. Where do you get your army of laborers to harvest the stuff here? I
think it's a very inefficient solution to the problem anyway. The value of
liquid fuels, of course, is that they provide permanent storage of energy and
that they are portable and highly concentrated. I think that our high-technology
know-how and our investment capital will be far better put into developing
nuclear processes, flat out, and using a hydrogen-based economy.
I was reading something in Holt. There's either Popper Mechanics or one of them
that's theoretical hydrogen-powered cars. Sure. I think Lockheed are
experimenting with hydrogen-fuelled aircraft. Yeah. It burns clean, and I think
there are some problems. This may have changed, but something I read a while
ago, I think that the storage efficiency, in terms of the calories you store per
pound weight, are not as high as you get from gasoline. mean, but I would think
with the kind of development capital that they've been talking about up until
recently anyway about putting into converting coal and things like that to
liquid, in what my opinion is a lot of nonsense, I think we could probably
improve the important hydrogen fuel. A lot of people pronounce a lot of sums
about to show you how much energy you could get from this source or that source
but a very important quantity that is not mentioned and recognized often enough
is energy density. The density at which harness energy is a very important
indicator of how efficiently, the efficiency of the processes you can, getting
smarter things done more efficiently. For instance, as an example, simple
arithmetic would enable you to calculate how much wood you'd need to burn to
lift 300 people across the Atlantic or to release the energy to lift 300 people
across the Atlantic. But now try building a wood-burning 747. It won't work.
It's just not dense enough. a lot of you need jet fuel, a far more highly
concentrated form to make power plants small enough and light enough to lift
themselves in the payload off the ground. Now, the density of nuclear process is
important for millions of times higher in the case of fusion, theoretically,
trillions of times higher than anything you could get from rupturing any
chemical bond. and I think is a primary energy source. That's the way we have to
go. And as for storing the energy that, you know, in a convenient form, for
example for transportation, hydrogen cyananide or liquid hydrogen or some form
of hydrogen-based compound which is plentiful enough in the oceans. And, if you
look beyond… People think of nuclear fission and nuclear fusion as just another
way of running a generating plant, but it's not. It is kind of a breakthrough
into a whole realm of potential technologies that have the promise of
streamlining and cleaning up and generally compacting a whole range of
industrial processes. For example in the temperature of nuclear plasmas,
seawater cracks thermally into hydrogen and oxygen far more efficiently than it
can be achieved by electrolysis. So as a byproduct of a nuclear process, you
have the possibility of producing very, very cheap hydrogen on an industrial
scale. Desalination of seawater is another possibility which, this year, we've
seen the problems. You know, the water problems associated with industry and
agriculture. Producing lots of fresh water and the energy to pump it to places
it's needed. It's another whole area that is opened up when you can control
energy of this volume and this density. Primary metals extraction is another.
The The temperature of nuclei plasmus tends 100 million degrees Kelvin. Any
substance breaks down into raw atomic nuclei with all the electrons stripped
off. Every compound breaks up into raw nuclei, which are highly charged, and can
therefore be separated very easily and very cheaply magnetically. And every
tonne of desert, rock, sand, construction debris contains traces of Aluminum,
Titaneum, Copper, Manganese, you name it, just about every important metal, but
it's just not economic to try and extract it by conventional processes, but at
nuclear temperatures that doesn't apply. So you can so shovel desert sand
through a magnetic fusion plasma and then separate out the ions magnetically and
who needs South Africa for minerals? Get it all out of Arizona. And you have the
potential, perhaps, for obsoleting overnight, all of our cumbersome and
expensive primary metals processing and extraction industries. And when you've
developed that technology here, you can take it to the Moon, and that's how you
build your space colonies and your starships. Yeah, I hope so. Didn't we get
carried away there? Yeah, I enjoy getting carried away, though. Yeah, hopefully,
I've been talking with several writers. I really do enjoy it. It's very
interesting to talk with somebody whose book you've read. and uh I'm beginning
to get the writing bug myself if I could only spell that would be alright Well,
like everything else it's one of those things that nobody was born knowing
Shakespeare had to learn to spell once and Einstein had to learn to count Yeah
Every expert in anything was a beginner sometimes A point well taken Do you see
yourself getting out to California in the foreseeable future? I don't know. Adel
will be out there, and I believe he lives less than 100 miles from where you
are. Well, you know, it goes without saying. If any of you find yourself over
here with some time to spare, you're welcome to call. See if we can get together
or something. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I'd really like that. So consider that an open
invitation if you and your friends are ever around this way. Well, if you ever
get out toward Texas, and in between nowhere and nowhere at all, that's where we
are. Yeah, yeah. I drove through Texas three times in November, and always in
the middle of the night, it seems. Well, if you drove through the west part, you
didn't miss anything. There wasn't anything there to see. Yeah. Well, I don't
feel too bad about it then. Yeah, actually, I take it back, the country out here
kind of grows on you after a while. In fact, I think we probably have some of
the most beautiful sunsets they'll ever find anywhere because of the inversion
layers and stuff we get out here every color on the rainbow is up in the sky.
Well no you see your looking west with them and we got them right here. Yeah. Oh
yeah it's it was dark a long time ago here.
Are you going to be at the Royal Con in Denver? I haven't decided yet. I don't
know maybe yeah if you do go we will be there at least if we have enough money
we'll be there yeah I'm not a I mean it's a good thing or a bad thing but it
happens to be a fact I'm really not a regular convention goer
I go to some and thoroughly enjoy them I suppose probably the reason this is
just a personal suspicion but I think I got into being a science fiction writer
from probably diametrically the opposite direction in the majority of science
fiction writers. I think it's more normal for young people to get interested in
science fiction typically through friends at college or university who
eventually persuade them to go to a convention and in a lot of cases they find
an environment they enjoy they find stimulating people they can relate to and it
becomes a habit... and some of those form the ambition to want to contribute
something to this genre themselves, so they start to write something and submit
it. Some of them are lucky and accepted. Then they try a novel. And ten years
later, there is another writer sitting up on the panel. And of course, during
that process, going to conventions and being part of conventions has already
become part of a lifestyle that they've absorbed. And I really never did. So I
kind of go to them occasionally to see what's happening and to see people and to
be sociable, but I suppose it never started out as part of a pattern of life in
years way gone by. Yeah, I've never been to a science fiction... Well, I guess
you could call this a convention. They're having some sort of Star Trek gizmo in
Dallas, and I stopped by to see what it was, but I've never really been to a
science fiction convention, per se. Well, I went to the World Client Boston last
year, which was, I enjoyed them, the World Conventions, well the one I've been
to, you know, this was an experience, was pretty huge, only 6,000 people there
in several hotels, and you can spend a whole damn weekend looking for one person
that you particularly wanted to meet? They can be pretty overpowering, but I
found the small local ones very enjoyable, just sort of one day with a hundred
or two people, and in that one day you see everybody and talk to everybody. That
can be a lot of fun too. Yeah, there's a group that gets together in New Mexico
We're not too far from New Mexico We measure things in Texas distances So it's
nothing to go 400 miles to see somebody And You couldn't drive out in England
Without falling off the edge Goosh into the water And into the channel On the
other But no People out here don't think anything Going to Dallas to go shopping
Don't even think twice about it And how far is Dallas? 380 miles. Good heavens.
of course most of the time they fly up there, Texas has it's own airline. Texas
is a strange and wonderful place. But you can fly up to Dallas and back for 50
bucks. I want to go back. I am reaching the point where if I have to get in the
car it's a long way. One of the big attractions of moving to the town I'm living
in now It's kind of one of those quaint, old-fashioned, friendly town. About 20
,000, 30,000 people maybe. But, you know, the sidewalks are busy with people.
And shops that are side by side. And the people stop and talk to you. And you
can walk anywhere. You know, it isn't like... What I found in Orlando was a
little like a miniature Los Angeles. It was like an airport with houses on. And
you couldn't do anything without getting in the car. And this is one of the
things. I like this country. That's why I came to live here. But one of the
aspects of a lot of American cities that I haven't got used to and don't think I
ever will is having to get in a car to do anything. And it is nice here. I think
80% of the places I want to go, I can just slip a jacket on and walk. because we
live in the town centre. Yeah. Yeah, our society's built around the car. It
really is. Yeah, I guess that's probably okay if you grew up with it. Kind of
harder to get used to if you didn't. Yeah. I grew up in the centre of London.
You can walk anywhere you want to go, and if you don't want to walk, there's
lots of buses and lots of tubes and subways. Yeah. Most people didn't own a car.
I never did until I moved out of London.
go down to the local joint. Couldn't do anything without a car. Well I'm not
saying there's anything wrong with it. I'm just saying it's kind of different to
what I'm used to. Yeah, it's a it's a strange thing we're hooked on over here.
Well, I think I've taken up enough of your time here. Well, don't worry. Were
you about through? Oh, we were through a long time ago. I was just enjoying
talking with you. Well, that's okay.
Thank you.